

CHAPTER 14: FATHER'S DAY
MURMANSK
THE Arctic seascape between Murmansk and Severomorsk had become a submarine graveyard
for Russia's once mighty fleet. Easily a hundred nuclear submarines lay rusting in the coastline's
various inlets and fjords, with only the odd danger sign or roving patrol to warn off curious
passers-by. At night, you didn't have to look too hard to see the glow, or listen too hard to hear the
hum.
One such submarine was the Nikodim. A twenty-year-old Typhoon class, with rusty pipes and a
leaky reactor. Not a healthy combination. And it was here that the Mafiya kingpin, Britva, had
instructed his lackeys to make the exchange for Artemis Fowl Senior.
Mikhael Vassikin and Kamar were none too happy with the situation. They had been bunked in
the captain's quarters for two days already, and were convinced their lives were growing shorter by
the minute.
Vassikin coughed. 'You hear that? My guts aren't right. It's the radiation, I'm telling you.'
'This whole thing is ridiculous,' snarled Kamar. 'The Fowl boy is thirteen. Thirteen! He's a baby.
How can a child raise five million dollars? It's crazy.'
Vassikin sat up on his bunk. 'Maybe not. I've heard stories about this one. They say he has
powers.'
Kamar snorted. 'Powers? Magic? Oh, go stuff your head in the reactor, you old woman.'
'No, I have a contact in Interpol. They have an active file on this boy. Thirteen years old and with
an active file? I am thirty-seven, and still no Interpol file.' The Russian sounded disappointed.
'An active file. What's magic about that?'
'But my contact swears that this boy, Fowl, is sighted all over the world, on the same day. The
same hour.'
Kamar was unimpressed. 'Your contact is a bigger coward than you are.'
'Believe what you want. But I'll be happy to get off this cursed boat alive. One way or the other.'

Kamar pulled a fur cap down over his ears. 'OK. Let's go. It's time.'
'Finally,' sighed Vassikin.
The two men collected the prisoner from the next cabin. They were not worried about an escape
attempt. Not with one leg missing and a hood secured over his head. Vassikin slung Fowl Senior
over his shoulder and climbed the rungs to the conning tower.
Kamar used a radio to check in with the back-up. There were over a hundred criminals hiding
among the petrified bushes and snowdrifts. Cigarette tips lit the night like fireflies.
'Put those cigarettes out, idiots,' he hissed over an open frequency. 'It's almost midnight. Fowl
could be here any second. Remember, no one shoots until I give the order. Then everybody
shoots.'
You could almost hear the hiss as a hundred cigarette butts were flicked into the snow. A
hundred men. It was a costly operation. But a mere drop in the ocean compared to the twenty per
cent promised them by Britva.
Wherever this boy Fowl came from, he would be trapped in a deadly crossfire. There was no way
out for him or his father, while he and Vassikin were safe behind the steel conning tower.
Kamar grinned. Let's see how much magic you have then, Irlanskii.
Holly surveyed the scene through the hi-res night-sight filter in her helmet with the eyes of a
seasoned Recon officer. Butler was stuck with plain old binoculars.
'How many cigarettes did you count?'
'More than eighty,' replied the captain. 'Could be up to a hundred men. You walk in there and
you'll be carried out.'
Root nodded in agreement. It was a tactical nightmare.
They were bivouacked on the opposite side of the fjord, high on a sloped hill. The Council had
even approved wings, on account of Artemis's recent services.
Foaly had done a mail retrieval from Artemis's computer and found a message: Five million US.
The Nikodim. Murmansk. Midnight on the fourteenth. It was short and to the point. What else was
there to say? They had missed their opportunity to snatch Artemis Senior before he was moved to

the drop point, and now the Mafiya were in control.
They gathered around while Butler sketched a diagram in the snow with a laser pointer.
'I would guess that the target is being held here, in the conning tower.To get there, you've got to
walk all the way along the sub. They've got a hundred men hiding out around the perimeter. We
have no air support, no satellite information and minimal weaponry.' Butler sighed. 'I'm sorry,
Artemis. I just don't see it.'
Holly knelt to study the diagram.'A time-stop would take days to set up. We can't shield either
because of the radiation, and there's no way to get close enough to mesmerize.'
'What about LEP weaponry?' asked Artemis, though he knew the answer.
Root chewed an unlit cigar. 'We discussed this, Artemis. We have as much firepower as you like,
but if we start blasting, your father will be their first target. Standard kidnapping rules.'
Artemis pulled an LEP field parka closer to his throat, staring at the rough diagram. 'And if we
give them the money?'
Foaly had run them up five million in small bills on one of his old printers. He had even had a
squad of sprites crumple it up a bit.
Butler shook his head. 'That's not the way these people do business. Alive, Mister Fowl is a
potential enemy. He has to die.'
Artemis nodded slowly. There was absolutely no other way. He would have to implement the
plan he had concocted in the Arctic shuttle port.
'Very well, everyone,' he said. 'I have a plan. But it's going to sound a bit extreme.'
Mikhael Vassikin's mobile phone rang, shattering the Arctic silence. Vassikin almost fell down
the tower hatch.
'Da? What is it? I'm busy.'
'This is Fowl,' said a voice in flawless Russian, colder than Arctic pack ice. 'It's midnight. I'm
here.'
Mikhael swung around, scanning the surroundings through his binoculars.

'Here? Where? I don't see anything.'
'Close enough.'
'How did you get this number?'
A chuckle rattled through the speakers. The sound set Vassikin's fillings on edge.
'I know someone. He has all the numbers.'
Mikhael took deep breaths, settling himself. 'Do you have the money?'
'Of course. Do you have the package?'
'Right here.'
Again the cold chuckle. 'All I see is a fat imbecile, a little rat and someone with a hood over his
head. It could be anyone. I'm not paying five million for your cousin Yuri.'
Vassikin ducked below the lip of the tower. 'Fowl can see us!' he hissed at Kamar. 'Stay low.'
Kamar scuttled to the far side of the tower, opening a line to his men. 'He's here. Fowl is here.
Search the area.'
Vassikin brought the phone back to his ear. 'So come down here and check. You'll see soon
enough.'
'I can see fine from right here. Just take the hood off.'
Mikhael covered the phone. 'He wants me to take the hood off. What should I do?'
Kamar sighed. Now it was becoming plain who was the brains in this outfit. 'Take it off. What
difference does it make? Either way they're both dead in five minutes.'
'OK, Fowl. I'm taking off the hood. The next face you see will be your father's.' The big Russian
propped up the prisoner, high over the lip of the conning tower. He reached up with one hand and
pulled off the rough sackcloth hood.
On the other end of the line, he heard a sharp intake of breath.
Through the filters of his borrowed LEP helmet, Artemis could see the conning tower as though
it were a metre away. The hood came off, and he could not suppress a sharp gasp.

It was his father. Different certainly. But not beyond recognition. Artemis Fowl the First,
without a shadow of a doubt.
'Well,' said a Russian voice in his ear. 'Is it him?'
Artemis struggled to stop his voice from shaking. 'Yes,' he said. 'It is him. Congratulations. You
have an item of some value.'
In the conning tower, Vassikin gave his partner the thumbs up. 'It's him,' he hissed. 'We're in the
money.'
Kamar didn't share his confidence. There would be no celebrating until the cash was in his hand.
Butler steadied the fairy Far shoot rifle on its stand. He had selected it from the LEP armoury.
Fifteen hundred metres. Not an easy shot. But there was no wind, and Foaly had given him a scope
that did the aiming for him. Artemis Fowl Senior's torso was centred in the crosshair.
He took a breath. 'Artemis. Are you sure?This is risky.'
Artemis did not reply, checking for the hundredth time that Holly was in position. Of course he
wasn't sure. A million things could go wrong with this deception, but what choice did he have?
Artemis nodded. Just once.
Butler fired the shot.
The shot caught Artemis Senior in the shoulder. He spun around, slumping over the startled
Vassikin.
The Russian howled in disgust, heaving the bleeding Irishman over the lip of the conning tower.
Artemis Senior slid along the keel, crashing through the brittle ice plates clinging to the sub's hull.
'He shot him,' yelped the khuligany. 'That devil shot his own father.'
Kamar was stunned, 'idiot!' he howled. 'You've just thrown our hostage overboard!' He peered
into the black Arctic waters. Nothing remained of the Irlanskii but ripples.
'Go down and get him, if you wish,' said Vassikin sullenly.
'Was he dead?'

His partner shrugged. 'Maybe. He was bleeding bad. And if the bullet doesn't finish him, the
water will. Anyway, it's not our fault.'
Kamar swore viciously. 'I don't think Britva will see it that way.'
'Britva,' breathed Vassikin.The only thing the Menidzher understood was money. 'O gods. We're
dead.'
The mobile phone rattled on the deck. The speaker was vibrating. Fowl was still on the other
end.
Mikhael picked up the mobile as though it were a grenade. 'Fowl?You there?'
'Yes,' came the reply.
'You crazy devil! What are you doing?Your father is as good as dead. I thought we had a deal!'
'We still do. A new one. You can still make some money tonight.'
Mikhael stopped panicking and started paying attention. Could there possibly be a way out of this
nightmare?
'I'm listening.'
'The last thing I need is for my father to return and destroy what I have built up over the past
two years.'
Mikhael nodded. This made perfect sense to him.
'So he had to die. I had to see it done myself, just to be sure. But I could still leave you a little
something.'
Mikhael could barely breathe. 'A little something?'
'The ransom. All five million.'
'And why would you do that?'
'You get the money; I get safe passage home. Fair enough?'
'Seems fair to me.'

'Very well. Now look across the bay, above the fjord.'
Mikhael looked. There was a flare burning, right at the snow-covered hill's tip.
'There is a briefcase tied to that flare. The flare goes out in ten minutes. I'd get there before then
if I were you. Otherwise the case could take years to find.'
Mikhael didn't bother to cut the connection. He just dropped the phone and ran. 'The money,' he
shouted at Kamar. 'Up there. The flare.'
Kamar was after him in a heartbeat, shouting instructions into the radio. Someone had to reach
that money. Who cared about a drowning Irlanskii when there were five million dollars to be
claimed?
Root pointed at Holly the moment Artemis Senior had been shot. 'Go!' he ordered.
Captain Short activated her wings, launching herself right off the hilltop. Of course, what they
were doing here was against all the regulations, but the Council was cutting Foaly a lot of slack
having more or less convicted him of treason. The only conditions were that the centaur was in
constant communication, and that every member of the party was fitted with remote incineration
packs, so that they and all their fairy technology could be destroyed in the event of capture or
injury.
Holly followed events on the submarine through her visor. She saw the charge impact on Artemis
Senior's shoulder, knocking him against the larger Russian. Blood registered in her field of vision. It
was still warm enough to be picked up by her thermal imager. Holly had to admit, it looked
effective. Maybe Artemis's plan could actually work. Maybe the Russians would be fooled. After all,
humans generally saw what they wanted to see.
Then things went horribly wrong.
'He's in the water!' shouted Holly into her helmet mike, opening the wing rig's throttle to the
max. 'He's alive, but not for long unless we get him out.'
She skimmed silently over the glistening ice, arms crossed over her chest for speed. She was
moving too fast for human vision to pin her down. She could be a bird, or a seal breaking the waves.
The submarine loomed before her.
On board the Nikodim, the Russians were evacuating. Clambering down the tower ladder, feet

slipping in their haste. And ashore, the same. Men breaking cover, crashing through the frosted
undergrowth. The commander must have set the flare. Those Mud Men would be delirious to find
their precious money, only to have it dissolve in seventy-two hours. That should just about give
them time to deliver it to their boss. Odds on he wouldn't be happy with disappearing cash.
Holly skimmed the sub's keel, safe from radiation in her suit and helmet. At the last moment, she
flipped upwards, shielded from the northern shore by the conning tower. She popped the throttle,
hovering above the ice hole where the human had fallen in. The commander was talking into her
ear, but Holly didn't reply. She had a job to do and no time for talk.
Fairies hate cold. They hate it. Some are so phobic about low temperatures that they won't even
eat ice cream. The last thing Holly wanted to do right now was put so much as a toe into that
sub-zero, radioactive water. But what choice did she have? 'D'Arvit,' she swore, and plunged into
the water.
The micro-filaments in her suit deadened the cold, but they could not dispel it entirely. Holly
knew that she had seconds before the temperature-drop slowed her reactions and sent her into
shock.
Below her, the unconscious human was as pale as a ghost. Holly fumbled with her wing controls.
A touch too much on the throttle could send her too deep. Not enough and she would fall short.
And at these temperatures, you got one shot only.
Holly hit the throttle. The engine buzzed once, sending her ten fathoms down. Perfect. She
grabbed Fowl Senior by the waist, quickly clipping him on to her Moonbelt. He hung there limply.
He needed an infusion of magic, and the sooner the better.
Holly glanced upwards. It seemed as though the ice hole was already closing. Was there anything
else that could go wrong? The commander was shouting in her ear, but she shut him out,
concentrating on getting back to dry land.
Ice crystals spun themselves across the hole like spiders' webs. The ocean seemed determined to
claim them.
I don't think so, thought Holly, pointing her helmeted head at the surface, and opening the
throttle as far as it would go.They crashed through the ice, arced through the air and landed on the
slatted surface of the sub's forward deck.
The human's face was the colour of the surrounding landscape. Holly crouched on his chest like

a predatory creature, exposing the supposed wound to the night air. There was blood on the deck,
but it was Artemis Junior's blood: they had pried the cap from a Hydrosion shell, and half filled it
with blood taken from Artemis's arm. On impact, the Fizzer had knocked Artemis Senior off his
feet, sending the crimson liquid spiralling through the air. Very convincing. Of course, being
thrown into the freezing waters had not been part of the plan.
The shell had not penetrated his skin, but Mister Fowl was not safe yet. Holly's thermal imager
showed that his heartbeat was dangerously slow and weak. She laid her hands on his chest. 'Heal,'
she whispered. 'Heal.'
And the magic scurried down her fingers.
Artemis couldn't watch Holly's rescue attempt. Had he done the right thing? What if the
Hydrosion shell penetrated? How could he ever face his mother again?
'Oh no,' said Butler.
Artemis was at his side in an instant. 'What is it?'
'Your father is in the water. One of the Russians threw him in.'
The boy groaned. That water was as deadly as any bullet. He'd been afraid that something like
this would happen.
Root had also been following the rescue attempt. 'OK. She's over the water. Can you see him,
Holly?'
No answer. Just static in his earphones.
'Status, Captain? Respond.'
Nothing.
'Holly?'
She's not talking because it's too late, thought Artemis. There's nothing she can do to save my
father and it's all my fault.
Root's voice cut through his thoughts. 'The Russians are evacuating,' he said. 'Holly's at the sub
now, over the hole in the ice. She's going in. Holly, what have you got? Come on, Holly. Talk to
me.'

Nothing. For the longest time.
Then Holly erupted through the ice like a mechanized dolphin. She arced briefly through the
Arctic night, crash-landing on the Typhoon's deck.
'She has your father,' said the commander.
Artemis slipped on the spare Recon helmet, willing Holly's voice to sound through the speakers.
He magnified the picture in his visor until it seemed as though he could touch his father and
watched Holly lean over his father's chest, pulses of magic shooting down her fingers.
After several moments, Holly looked up, straight into Artemis's eyes, as though she knew he was
watching. 'I got him,' she gasped. 'One live Mud Man. He's not pretty, but he's breathing.'
Artemis sank to the ground, sobs of relief shaking his thin shoulders. He cried for a whole
minute. Then he was himself again.
'Well done, Captain. Now let's get out of here before Foaly activates one of these incinerator
packs by accident.'
In the bowels of the Earth, the centaur leaned back from his communications console.
'Don't tempt me,' he chuckled.

AN EPILOGUE OR TWO
TARA
Artemis was heading back to St Bartleby's. This was where he had to be when the Helsinki
medical services identified his father from the suitably weathered passport Foaly had run up for
him.
Holly had done her best for the injured man, healing his chest wound and even restoring sight to
his blinded eye. But it was too late to reattach the leg, which they didn't have in any case. No,
Artemis Senior needed prolonged medical attention, and it had to begin somewhere that could be
rationally explained. So Holly had flown south-west to Helsinki, depositing the unconscious man at
the doors of the University Hospital. One porter had spotted the flying patient, but he had been
successfully mind-wiped.
When Artemis Senior regained consciousness the past two years would be a blur, and his last
memory would be a happy one: bidding his family farewell at Dublin harbour. Thanks again to Foaly
and his mind-wiping technology.
'Why don't I just move in with you?' the centaur had quipped when they returned to Police
Plaza. 'Do your ironing while I'm at it.'
Artemis smiled. He had been doing that a lot lately. Even the parting with Holly had gone better
than he could have expected, considering she'd seen him shoot his own father. Artemis shuddered.
He anticipated many sleepless nights over that particular strategy.
The captain escorted them to Tara, slipping them out through a holographic hedge. There was
even a holographic cow chewing the virtual leaves to throw humans off the fairy scent.
Artemis was back in his school uniform, which had been miraculously restored by the People's
technology. He sniffed his lapel.

'This blazer smells unusual,' he commented. 'Not unpleasant, but unusual.'
'It's completely clean,' said Holly, smiling. 'Foaly had to put it through three cycles in the
machine to purge. . .'
'To purge the Mud People from it,' completed Artemis.
'Exactly.'
There was a full moon overhead, bright and pocked like a golf ball. Holly could feel its magic
singing to her.
'Foaly said, in the light of the help you've given us, he's pulling the surveillance on Fowl Manor.'
'That's good to know,' said Artemis.
'Is it the right decision?'
Artemis considered it. 'Yes. The People are safe from me.'
'Good. Because a large section of the Council wanted you mind-wiped. And with a chunk of
memory this big, your IQ could take a bit of a dip.'
Butler extended a hand. 'Well, Captain. I don't suppose I'll see you again.'
Holly shook it. 'If you do, it'll be too late.' Captain Short turned towards the fairy fort. 'I had
better go. It will be light soon. I don't want to be caught unshielded on a spy satellite. The last
thing I need is my photo all over the Internet. Not when I've just been reinstated at Recon.'
Butler elbowed his employer gently.
'Oh, Holly . . . Eh, Captain Short.' Eh? Artemis couldn't believe he'd actually said eh. It wasn't
even a word.
'Yes, Mud B . . . Yes, Artemis?'
Artemis looked Holly in the eye, just as Butler had instructed. This 'being civil' business was
more difficult than one would think. 'I would like to . . . I mean.What I mean is . . ."
Another elbow from Butler.
'Thank you. I owe you everything. Because of you I have my parents. And the way you flew that

craft was nothing short of spectacular. And on the train . . . Well, I could never have done what you
. . .'
A third elbow. This time to stop the babbling.
'Sorry. Well, you get the idea.'
Holly's elfin features wore a strange expression. Somewhere between embarrassment and – could
it possibly be? – delight. She recovered quickly.
'Maybe I owe you something too, human,' she said, drawing her pistol. Butler almost reacted, but
decided to give Holly the benefit of the doubt.
Captain Short plucked a gold coin from her belt, flicking it twenty metres into the moonlit sky.
With one fluid movement, she brought her weapon up and loosed a single blast. The coin rose
another twenty metres, then spun earthwards. Artemis somehow managed to snatch it from the air.
The first cool moment of his young life.
'Nice shot,' he said. The previously solid disc now had a tiny hole in the centre.
Holly held out her hand, revealing the still-raw scar on her finger. 'If it wasn't for you, I would
have missed altogether. No mech-digit can replicate that kind of accuracy. So, thank you too, I
suppose.'
Artemis held out the coin.
'No,' said Holly. 'You keep it, to remind you.'
'To remind me?'
Holly stared at him frankly. 'To remind you that deep beneath the layers of deviousness, there is a
spark of decency. Perhaps you could blow on that spark occasionally.'
Artemis closed his fingers around the coin. It was warm against his palm. 'Yes, perhaps.'
A small two-seater plane buzzed overhead. Artemis glanced skywards, and when he looked back
Holly was gone. A slight heat haze hovered above the grass.
'Goodbye, Holly,' he said softly.
The Bentley started on the first turn of the key. In less than an hour they arrived at St Bartleby's

main gate.
'Make sure your phone's switched on,' Butler said, holding the door. 'The Helsinki officials
should be getting the results of their trace from Interpol soon. Your father's file has been
reactivated in their mainframe thanks, once again, to Foaly.'
Artemis nodded, checking his phone was switched on. 'Try to locate Mother and Juliet before
the news comes through. I don't want to be hunting through every spa in the south of France
looking for them.'
'Yes, Artemis.'
'And check my accounts are well hidden. No need for Father to know exactly what I've been up
to for the past two years.'
Butler smiled. 'Yes, Artemis.'
Artemis took a few steps towards the school gates, then turned. 'And, Butler, one more thing. In
the Arctic . . ."
Artemis couldn't ask, but his bodyguard knew the answer anyway.
'Yes, Artemis,' he said gently. 'You did the right thing. It was the only way.'
Artemis nodded, standing by the gates until the Bentley had disappeared down the avenue. From
this moment on, life would be different. With two parents in the manor, his schemes would have to
be much more carefully planned. Yes, he owed it to the People to leave them alone for a while, but
Mulch Diggums . . . that was a different matter. So many secure facilities, so little time.
COUNSELLOR'S OFFICE, ST BARTLEBY'S SCHOOL FOR YOuNG GENTLEMEN
Not only was Doctor Po still employed at St Bartleby's, but he seemed fortified by his break
from Artemis. His other patients were relatively straightforward cases of anger management, exam
stress and chronic shyness. And that was just the teachers.
Artemis settled on to the couch, taking care not to accidentally press the power button on his
mobile.
Doctor Po nodded at his computer. 'Principal Guiney forwarded me your e-mail. Charming.'
'I'm sorry about that,' muttered Artemis, surprised to find that he actually was sorry. Upsetting

other people didn't usually upset him. 'I was in denial. So, I projected my anxieties on to you.'
Po half chuckled. 'Yes, very good. Just what it says in the book.'
'I know,' said Artemis. And he did know. Doctor F. Roy Dean Schlippe had contributed a
chapter to that particular book.
Doctor Po laid down his pen, something he had never done before.
'You know, we still haven't resolved that last issue.'
'Which issue is that, Doctor?'
'The one we touched on at our last session. About respect?'
'Ah, that issue.'
Po steepled his fingers. 'I want you to pretend I'm as smart as you are, and give me an honest
answer.'
Artemis thought of his father lying in a Helsinki hospital, of Captain Holly Short risking her life
to help him and, of course, Butler, without whom he would never have made it out of Koboi
Laboratories. He looked up, catching Doctor Po smiling at him.
'Well, young man, have you found anyone worthy of your respect?'
Artemis smiled back. 'Yes,' he said. 'I believe I have.'
THE END

for more e-books, visit www.intexblogger.com

 
