MURMANSK, NORTHERN RUSSIA, TWO YEARS AGO
THE two Russians huddled around a flaming barrel in a futile attempt to ward off the Arctic
chill. The Bay of Kola was not a place you wanted to be after September, especially not Murmansk.
In Murmansk even the polar bears wore scarves. Nowhere was colder, except perhaps Noril'sk.
The men were Mafiya enforcers and were more used to spending their evenings inside stolen
BMWs. The larger of the two, Mikhael Vassikin, checked the fake Rolex beneath the sleeve of his
fur coat.
'This thing could freeze up,' he said, tapping the diving bezel. 'What am I going to do with it
then?'
'Stop your complaining,' said the one called Kamar. 'It's your fault we're stuck outside in the first
place.'
Vassikin paused. 'Pardon me?'
'Our orders were simple: sink the Fowl Star. All you had to do was blow the cargo bay. It was a
big enough ship, heaven knows. Blow the cargo bay and down she goes. But no, the great Vassikin
hits the stern. Not even a back-up rocket to finish the job. So now we have to search for survivors.'
'She sank, didn't she?'
Kamar shrugged. 'So what? She sank slowly, plenty of time for the passengers to grab on to
something. Vassikin, the famous sharpshooter! My grandmother could shoot better.'
Lyubkhin, the Mafiya's man on the docks, approached before the discussion could develop into
an all-out brawl.
'How are things?' asked the bear-like Yakut.
Vassikin spat over the quay wall. 'How do you think? Did you find anything?'
'Dead fish and broken crates,' said the Yakut, offering both enforcers a steaming mug. 'Nothing
alive. It's been over eight hours now. I have good men searching all the way down to Green Cape.'
Kamar drank deeply, then spat in disgust. 'What is this stuff? Pitch?'
Lyubkhin laughed. 'Hot cola. From the Fowl Star. It's coming ashore by the crate-load. Tonight
we are truly on the Bay of Kola.'
'Be warned,' said Vassikin, spilling the liquid on to the snow. 'This weather is souring my temper.
So no more terrible jokes. It's enough that I have to listen to Kamar.'
'Not for much longer,' muttered his partner. 'One more sweep and we call off the search.
Nothing could survive these waters for eight hours.'
Vassikin held out his empty cup. 'Don't you have something stronger? A shot of vodka to ward
off the cold? I know you always keep a flask hidden somewhere.'
Lyubkhin reached for his hip pocket, but stopped when the walkie-talkie on his belt began to
emit static. Three short bursts.
'Three squawks. That's the signal.'
'The signal for what?'
Lyubkhin hurried down the docks, shouting back over his shoulder. 'Three squawks on the radio.
It means that the K unit has found someone.'
The survivor was not Russian. That much was obvious from his clothes. Everything, from the
designer suit to the leather overcoat, had obviously been purchased in Western Europe, perhaps
even America. They were tailored to fit, and made from the highest-quality material.
Though the man's clothes were relatively intact, his body had not fared so well. His bare feet and
hands were mottled with frostbite. One leg hung strangely limp below the knee, and his face was a
horrific mask of burns.
The search crew had carried him from a ravine three klicks south of the harbour on a makeshift
tarpaulin stretcher. The men crowded around their prize, stamping their feet against the cold that
invaded their boots. Vassikin elbowed his way through the gathering, kneeling for a closer look.
'He'll lose the leg for sure,' he noted. 'A couple of fingers too. The face doesn't look too good
either.'
'Thank you, Doctor Mikhael,' commented Kamar drily. 'Any ID?'
Vassikin conducted a quick thief's search. Wallet and watch.
'Nothing. That's odd. You'd think a rich man like this would have some personal effects,
wouldn't you?'
Kamar nodded. 'Yes, I would.' He turned to the circle of men. 'Ten seconds, then there'll be
trouble. Keep the currency, everything else I need returned.'
The sailors considered it. The man was not big. But he was Mafiya, the Russian organized-crime
syndicate.
A leather wallet sailed over the crowd, skidding into a dip in the tarpaulin. Moments later it was
joined by a Car tier chronograph. Gold with diamond studding. Worth five years of an average
Russian's wages.
'Wise decision,' said Kamar, scooping up the treasure trove.
'Well?' asked Vassikin. 'Do we keep him?'
Kamar pulled a platinum Visa card from the kidskin wallet, checking the name.
'Oh we keep him,' he replied, activating his mobile phone. 'We keep him, and put some blankets
over him. The way our luck's going, he'll catch pneumonia. And believe me, we don't want anything
to happen to this man. He's our ticket to the big time.'
Kamar was getting excited. This was completely out of character for him.
Vassikin clambered to his feet. 'Who are you calling? Who is this guy?'
Kamar picked a number from his speed-dial menu. 'I'm calling Britva. Who do you think I'm
calling?'
Vassikin paled. Calling the boss was dangerous. Britva was well known for shooting the bearers of
bad news. 'It's good news, right?You're calling with good news?'
Kamar flipped the Visa at his partner. 'Read that.'
Vassikin studied the card for several moments. 'I don't read Angliskii. What does it say? What's
the name?'
Kamar told him. A slow smile spread across Mikhael's face. 'Make the call,' he said.
 
