ST BARTLEBY'S SCHOOL FOR YOUNG GENTLEMEN
BUTLER had been in Artemis Fowl's service since the moment of the boy's birth. He had spent
the first night of his charge's life standing guard on the Sisters of Mercy maternity ward. For over a
decade, Butler had been teacher, mentor and protector to the young heir. The pair had never been
separated for more than a week, until now. It shouldn't bother him, he knew that. A bodyguard
should never become emotionally attached to his package. It affects his judgement. But in his
private moments, Butler couldn't help thinking of the Fowl heir as the son or younger brother he'd
never had.
Butler parked the Bentley Arnage Red Label on the college avenue. If anything, the Eurasian
manservant had bulked up since mid-term. With Artemis in boarding school, he was spending a lot
more time in the gym.Truth be told, Butler was bored pumping iron, but the college authorities
absolutely refused to allow him a bunk in Artemis's room. And when the gardener had discovered
the bodyguard's hideout just off the seventeenth green, they had banned him from the college
grounds altogether.
Artemis slipped through the college gate, Doctor Po's comments still in his thoughts.
'Problems, sir?' said Butler, noticing his employer's sour expression.
Artemis ducked into the Bentley's wine-leather interior, selecting a still water from the bar.
'Hardly, Butler. Just another quack spouting psychobabble."
Butler kept his voice level. 'Should I have a word with him?'
'Never mind him now. What news of the Fowl Star?'
'We got an e-mail at the manor this morning. It's an mpeg;
Artemis scowled. He could not access MPEG video files on his mobile phone.
Butler pulled a portable computer from the glove compartment. 'I thought you might be anxious
to see the file, so I downloaded it on to this.'
He passed the computer over his shoulder. Artemis activated the compact machine, folding out
the flat colour screen. At first he thought the battery was dead, then realized he was looking at a
field of snow. White on white, with only the faintest shadows to indicate dips and drumlins.
Artemis felt the uneasiness rolling in his gut. Funny how such an innocent image could be so
foreboding.
The camera panned upwards, revealing a dull twilit sky. Then a black hunched object in the
distance. A rhythmic crunching issued through the compact speakers as the cameraman advanced
through the snow. The object grew clearer. It was a man sitting on, no, tied to, a chair. The ice
clinked in Artemis's glass. His hands were shaking.
The man was dressed in the rags of a once fine suit. Scars branded the prisoner's face like
lightning bolts, and one leg appeared to be missing. It was difficult to tell. Artemis's breath was
jumpy now, like a marathon runner's.
There was a sign around the man's neck. Cardboard and twine. On the sign was scrawled in thick
black letters: Zdmvstvutye, syn. The camera zoomed in on the message for several seconds, then went
blank.
'Is that all?' .
Butler nodded. 'Just the man and the sign. That's it.'
'Zdmvstvutye, syn,' muttered Artemis, his accent flawless. Since his father's disappearance he had
been teaching himself the language.
'Should I translate for you?' asked Butler, also a Russian speaker. He had picked it up during a
five-year stint with an espionage unit in the late eighties. His accent, however, was not quite so
sophisticated as his young employer's.
'No, I know what it means,' replied Artemis. 'Zdmvstvutye, syn: Hello, son.'
Butler pulled the Bentley on to the dual carriageway. Neither of them spoke for several minutes.
Eventually Butler had to ask.
'Do you think it's him, Artemis? Could that man be your father?'
Artemis rewound the MPEG, freezing it on the mysterious man's face. He touched the display,
sending rainbow distortions across the screen.
'I think so, Butler. But the picture quality is too poor. I can't be certain.'
Butler understood the emotions battering his young charge. He too had lost someone aboard the
Fowl Star. His uncle, the Major, had been assigned to Artemis's father on that fateful trip.
Unfortunately, the Major's body had turned up in theTchersky morgue.
Artemis regained his composure. 'I must pursue this, Butler.'
'You know what's coming next, of course?'
'Yes. A ransom demand. This is merely the teaser, to get my attention. I need to cash in some of
the People's gold. Contact Lars in Zurich immediately.'
Butler accelerated into the fast lane.
'Master Artemis, I have had some experience in these matters.'
Artemis did not interrupt. Butler's career before his current charge's birth had been varied to say
the least.
'The pattern with kidnappers is to eliminate all witnesses. Then they will generally try to
eliminate each other to avoid splitting the ransom.'
'Your point being?'
'My point being that paying a ransom in no way guarantees your father's safety. If indeed that man
is your father. It is quite possible that the kidnappers will take your money and then kill all of us.'
Artemis studied the screen. 'You're right, of course. I will have to devise a plan.'
Butler swallowed. He remembered the last plan. It had almost got them both killed, and could
have plunged the planet into a cross-species war. Butler was a man who didn't scare easily, but the
spark in Artemis Fowl's eyes was enough to send a shiver crackling down his spine.
CHUTE TERMINAL EI: TARA, IRELAND
Captain Holly Short had decided to work a double shift and proceed directly to the surface. She
paused only for a nutri-bar and energy shake before hopping on the first shuttle to the terminal at
Tara.
One of Tara's officials was not making her journey any easier. The head of security was annoyed
that Captain Short had not only put all chute traffic on hold to take a priority pod from El, but had
then proceeded to commandeer an entire shuttle for the return journey.
'Why don't you check your system again?' said Holly, through gritted teeth. 'I'm sure the
authorization from Police Plaza has arrived by now.'
The truculent gnome consulted his hand-held computer. 'No, ma'am. I ain't got nuthin.'
'Look, Mister . . .'
'Commandant Terryl.'
'Commandant Terryl. I'm on an important mission here. National security. I need you to keep the
arrivals hall completely clear for the next couple of hours.'
Terryl made a great show of almost collapsing. 'The next coupl'a hours! Are you crazy, girly? I got
three shuttles comin' in from Atlantis. What'm I s'posed to tell 'em? Tour's off 'cause of some LEP
secret shenanigans. This is high season. I can't just shut things down. No way, no how.'
Holly shrugged. 'Fine. You just let all your tourists catch sight of the two humans I'm bringing
down here. There'll be a riot. I guarantee it.'
'Two humans?' said the head of security. 'Inside the terminal? Are you nuts?'
Holly was running out of patience, and time. 'Do you see this?' she demanded, pointing to the
insignia on her helmet. 'I'm LEP. A captain. No rent-a-cop gnome is going to stand in the way of
my orders.'
Terryl drew himself up to his full height, which was about seventy centimetres. 'Yeah, I heard a
you. The crazy girly captain. Caused quite a stir up here last year, didn't you? My tax ingots gonna
be payin' for that little screw-up for quite some time.'
'Just ask Central, you bureaucratic idiot.'
'Call me what you want, missy. We have our rules here, and without confirmation from below,
ain't nuthin I can do to change 'em. 'Specially not fer some gun-totin' girly with an attitude
problem.'
'Well get on the blower to Police Plaza then!'
Terryl sniffed. 'The magma flares have just started actin' up. It's hard to get a line. Maybe I'll try
again, after my rounds. Just you take yourself a seat in the departure lounge.'
Holly's hand strayed towards her buzz baton.
'You know what you're doing, don't you?'
'What?' croaked the gnome.
'You're obstructing an LEP operation.'
'I ain't obstructin' nuthin
'And, as such, it is in my power to remove said obstruction using any force that I deem
necessary.'
'Don't you threaten me, missy.'
Holly drew the baton, twirling it expertly. 'I'm not threatening you. I'm just informing you of
police procedure. If you continue to obstruct me, I remove the obstruction, in this case you, and
proceed to the next in command.'
Terryl was unconvinced. 'You wouldn't dare.'
Holly grinned. 'I'm the crazy girly captain. Remember?'
The gnome considered it. It was unlikely the officer would buzz him, but then again who knew
with female elves?
'OK,' he said, printing off a sheet on the computer. 'This is a twenty-four-hour visa. But if you're
not back here in that time, I'll have you taken into custody on your return. Then I'll be the one
making the threats.'
Holly snatched the sheet. 'Whatever. Now, remember, make sure Arrivals is clear when I get
back.'
IRELAND, EN ROUTE FROM ST BARTLEBY'S TO FOWL MANOR
Artemis was bouncing ideas off Butler. It was a technique he often used when trying to come up
with a plan. After all, if anybody was an expert on covert operations, it was his bodyguard.
'We can't trace the MPEG?'
'No, Artemis. I tried. They put a decay virus in with the e-mail. I only just managed to get the
film on disk before the original disintegrated.'
'What about the MPEG itself? Could we get a geographical fix from the stars?'
Butler smiled. Young Master Artemis was starting to think like a soldier.
'No luck. I sent a shot to a friend of mine in NASA. He didn't even bother putting it into the
computer. Not enough definition.'
Artemis was silent for a minute.
'How fast can we get to Russia?'
Butler drummed his fingers on the steering wheel. 'It depends.'
'Depends on what?'
'On how we go, legal or illegal.'
'Which is quicker?'
Butler laughed. Something you didn't hear very often. 'Illegal is usually faster. Either way is going
to be pretty slow. We can't go by air, that's for sure. The Mafiya are going to have foot soldiers at
every airstrip.'
'Are we sure it's the Mafiya?'
Butler glanced in the rear-view mirror. 'I'm afraid so. All kidnappings go through the Mafiya.
Even if an ordinary criminal managed to abduct your father, he would have to hand him over once
the Mafiya had found out about it.'
Artemis nodded. 'That's what I thought. So we will have to travel by sea, and that will take a
week at the very least. We could really use some help with transport.
Something the Mafiya won't expect. How's our ID situation?'
'No problem. I thought we'd go native. We'll arouse less suspicion. I have passports and visas.'
'Da. What is our cover?'
'What about Stefan Bashkir and his Uncle Constantin?'
'Perfect. The chess prodigy and his chaperone.' They had used this cover many times before on
previous search missions. Once, a checkpoint official, himself a chess grandmaster, had doubted
their story until Artemis beat him in six moves. The technique had since become known as the
Bashkir Manoeuvre.
'How soon can we leave?'
'Almost immediately. Missus Fowl and Juliet are in Nice this week. That gives us eight days. We
can mail the school, make up some excuse.'
'I dare say St Bartleby's will be glad to be rid of me for a while.'
'We could go straight to the airport from Fowl Manor. The Lear jet is stocked. At least we can fly
as far as Scandinavia and we can try to pick up a boat from there. I just have to pick up a few things
at the manor first.'
Artemis could imagine exactly the kind of things his manservant wished to pick up. Sharp things
and explosive things.
'Good. The sooner the better. We've got to find these people before they know we're looking.
We can monitor e-mail as we go.'
Butler took the exit for Fowl Manor.
'You know, Artemis,' he said, glancing in the mirror. 'We're going up against the Russian Mafiya.
I've had dealings with these people before. They don't negotiate. This could get bloody. If we take
these gangsters on, people are going to get hurt. Most likely us.'
Artemis nodded absently, watching his own reflection in the window. He needed a plan.
Something audacious and brilliant. Something that had never been attempted before. Artemis was
not unduly worried on that front. His brain had never let him down.
TARA SHUTTLE PORT
The fairy shuttle port at Tara was an impressive operation. Ten thousand cubic metres of terminal
concealed beneath an overgrown hillock in the middle of the McGraney farm.
For centuries, the McGraneys had respected the fairy fort's boundaries and, for centuries, they
had enjoyed exceptional good luck. Illnesses mysteriously cleared up overnight. Priceless art
treasures unearthed themselves with incredible regularity, and mad cow disease seemed to avoid
their herds altogether.
Having solved her visa problem, Holly finally made her way to the security door and slipped
through the holographic camouflage. She had managed to secure a set of Koboi DoubleDex for the
trip. The rig ran on a satellite-bounced solar battery, and employed a revolutionary wing
design.There were two sets, or decks; one fixed for gliding, and a smaller set for manoeuvrability.
Holly had been dying to try out the DoubleDex, but only a few rigs had made their way across from
Koboi Labs. Foaly was reluctant to let them out because he hadn't designed them. Professional
envy. Holly had taken advantage of his absence from the lab to swipe a set from the rack.
She soared fifteen metres above the ground, allowing unfiltered surface air to fill her lungs.
Though laden with pollutants, it was still sweeter than the recycled tunnel variety. For several
minutes, she enjoyed the experience, before turning her concentration to the mission at hand: how
to abduct Artemis Fowl.
Not from his home, Fowl Manor, that was for certain. Legally, she put herself on very shaky
ground by entering a dwelling without permission. Even though, technically, Fowl had invited her
in by kidnapping her last year. Not many lawyers would take your case on the basis of that defence.
Anyway, the manor was a virtual fortress and had already seen off an entire LEPretrieval team. Why
should she fare any better?
There was also the complication that Artemis could very welt be expecting her, especially if he
was trading with the B'wa Kell.The idea of walking into a trap did not appeal to Holly. She had
already been imprisoned once in Fowl Manor. Doubtless her cell was still furnished.
Holly activated the computer navigation package, calling up Fowl Manor on her helmet visor. A
soft crimson light began to blip beside the D plan of the house. The building had been red-flagged
by the LEP. Holly groaned. Now she would be treated to a video warning, just in case there was
one Recon officer under the world who had not heard of Artemis Fowl.
Corporal Lili Frond's face appeared on the screen. Of course they chose Lili for this assignment.
The bimbo face of the LEP. Sexism was alive and well and living in Police Plaza. It was rumoured
that Frond's LEP scores had been bumped up because of her descendancy from the elfin king.
'You have selected Fowl Manor,' said Frond's image, fluttering her eyelids. 'This is a red-flagged
building. Unauthorized access is strictly forbidden. Do not even attempt a fly-over. Artemis Fowl is
considered an active threat to the People.'
A picture of Fowl appeared beside Frond, a digitally enhanced scowl on his face.
'His accomplice, known only as Butler, is not to be approached under any circumstances. He is
generally armed and always dangerous.'
Butler's massive head appeared beside the two other images. Armed and dangerous hardly did
him justice. He was the only human in history to have taken on a troll and won.
Holly sent the co-ordinates to the flight computer and let the wings do the steering for her. The
countryside sped by below. Even since her last visit, the Mud People infestation seemed to have
taken a stronger hold. There was barely an acre of land without dozens of their dwellings digging
into its soil, and barely a mile of river without one of their factories pouring its poison into the
waters.
The sun finally dipped below the horizon and Holly raised the filters on her visor. Time was on
her side now. She had the entire night to come up with a plan. Holly found that she missed Foaly's
sarcastic comments in her ear. Annoying as the centaur's observations were, they generally proved
accurate and had saved her hide on more than one occasion. She tried to establish a link, but the
flares were still high and there was no reception. Nothing but static.
Fowl Manor loomed in the distance, completely dominating the surrounding landscape. Holly
scanned the building with her thermal bar and found nothing but insect and small rodent life forms.
Spiders and mice. Nobody home. That suited her fine. She landed on the head of a particularly
gruesome stone gargoyle, and settled in to wait.
FOWL MANOR, DUBLIN, IRELAND
The original Fowl castle had been built by Lord Hugh Fowl in the fifteenth century, overlooking
low-lying country on all sides. A tactic borrowed from the Normans: never let your enemies sneak
up on you. Over the centuries, the castle had been extensively remodelled until it became a manor,
but the attention to security remained. The manor was surrounded by metre-thick walls, and wired
with a state-of-the-art security system.
Butler pulled off the road, opening the estate gates with a remote. He glanced back at his
employer's pensive face. Sometimes he thought that, in spite of all his contacts, informants and
employees, Artemis Fowl was the loneliest boy he'd ever met.
'We could bring a couple of those fairy blasters,' he said.
Butler had relieved LEPretrieval One of their weaponry during the previous year's siege.
Artemis nodded. 'Good idea, but remove the nuclear batteries and put the blasters in a bag with
some old games and books. We can pretend they're toys if we're captured.'
'Yes, sir. Good thinking.'
The Bentley Red Label crunched up the driveway, activating the ground's security lights. There
were several lamps on in the main house. These were on randomly alternating timers.
Butler undid his seat belt, stepping lithely from the Bentley.
'You need anything special, Artemis?'
Artemis nodded. 'Grab some caviar from the kitchen. You wouldn't believe the muck they feed
us in Bartleby's for ten thousand a term.'
Butler smiled again. A teenager asking for caviar. He'd never get used to it.
The smile withered on his lips halfway to the recently remodelled entrance. A shiver passed
across his heart. He knew that feeling well. His mother used to say that someone had just walked
over his grave. A sixth sense. Gut instinct. There was peril somewhere. Invisible, but here
nevertheless.
Holly spotted the headlights raking the sky from over a mile away. Optix were no good from this
vantage point. Even when the automobile's windscreen came into view, the glass was tinted and the
shadows beyond were deep. She felt her heart rate increase at the sight of Fowl's car.
The Bentley wound along the avenue, flickering between the rows of willow and horse chestnut.
Holly ducked instinctively, though she was completely shielded from human eyes. You couldn't be
certain with Artemis Fowl's manservant. Last year Artemis had cannibalized a fairy helmet,
constructing an eyepiece that allowed Butler to spot and neutralize an entire crack squad of
LEPretrieval commandos. It was hardly likely that he was wearing the lens at the moment but, as
Trouble Kelp and his boys had learned, it didn't pay to underestimate Artemis or his manservant.
Holly set the Neutrino to slightly above the recommended stun setting. A couple of Butler's
brain cells might get fried, but she wasn't about to lose any sleep over it.
The car swung into the driveway, crunching across the gravel. Butler climbed out. Holly felt her
back teeth grinding. Once upon a time, she had saved his life, healing him after a mortal encounter
with a troll. She wasn't sure if she'd do it again.
Holding her breath, LEPrecon Captain Holly Short set the DoubleDex to slow descent. She
dropped soundlessly, skimming past the storeys, and aimed her weapon at Butler's chest. Now there
was a target a sun-blinded dwarf couldn't miss.
The human couldn't have detected her presence. Not possible. Yet something made him pause.
He stopped and sniffed the air. The Mud Man was like a dog. No, not a dog, a wolf. A wolf with a
big handgun.
Holly focused her helmet lens on the weapon, sending a photo to her computer database.
Moments later, a hi-res rotating D image of the gun appeared in the corner of her visor.
'Sig Sauer,' said a recorded byte of Foaly's voice. 'Nine millimetre. Thirteen in the magazine. Big
bullets. One of these hits you and it could blow your head off; something even the magic can't fix.
Other than that you should be all right, presuming you remembered to wear the regulation
above-ground micro-fibre jumpsuit recently patented by me. Then again, being a Recon jock, you
probably didn't.'
Holly scowled. Foaly was all the more annoying when he was right. She had jumped on the first
available shuttle without even bothering to change into an above-ground suit.
Holly's eyes were level with Butler's now, yet she was still hovering over a metre from the
ground. She released the visor seals, wincing at the pneumatic hiss.
Butler heard the escaping gas, swinging the Sig Sauer towards the source.
'Fairy,' he said. 'I know you're there. Unshield or I start shooting.'
This was not exactly the tactical advantage Holly had in mind. Her visor was up, and the
manservant's finger was creaking on his pistol's hair trigger. She took a deep breath and shut down
her shield.
'Hello, Butler,' she said evenly.
Butler cocked the Sig Sauer. 'Hello, Captain. Come down slowly, and don't try any of your . . .'
'Put your gun away,' said Holly, her voice layered with the hypnotic mesmer.
Butler fought it, the gun barrel shaking erratically.
'Put it down, Butler. Don't make me fry your brain.'
A vein pulsed in Butler's eyelid.
Unusual, thought Holly. I've never seen that before.
'Don't fight me, Mud Man. Give in to it.'
Butler opened his mouth to speak. To warn Artemis. She pushed harder, the magic cascading
around the human's head.
'I said put it down!'
A bead of sweat ran down the bodyguard's cheek.
'PUT IT DOWN!'
And Butler did, gradually and grudgingly.
Holly smiled. 'Good, Mud Man. Now, back to the car and act as though nothing's wrong.'
The manservant's legs obeyed, ignoring the signals from his own brain.
Holly buzzed up her shield. She was going to enjoy this.
Artemis was composing an e-mail on his laptop.
Dear Principal Guiney . . . it read . . .
Because of your counsellor's tactless interrogation of my little Arty, I have taken him out of school for a course of
therapy sessions with real professionals in the Mont Gaspard Clinic in Switzerland. I am considering legal action.
Do not attempt to contact me as that would only serve to irritate me further and, when irritated, I generally call my
attorneys.
Sincerely,
Angeline Fowl
Artemis sent the message, allowing himself the luxury of a small grin. It would have been nice to
watch Principal Guiney's expression when he read the electronic letter. Unfortunately, the button
camera he'd planted in the headmaster's office could only be accessed within a mile radius.
Butler opened the driver's door and, after a moment, slipped into the seat.
Artemis folded his phone into its wallet. 'Captain Short, I presume. Why don't you stop vibrating
and settle into the visible spectrum?'
Holly speckled into view. There was a gleaming gun in her hand. Guess where it was pointed.
'Really, Holly, is that necessary?'
Holly snorted. 'Well, let's see. Kidnapping, actual bodily harm, extortion, conspiracy to commit
murder. I'd say it's necessary.'
'Please, Captain Short,' said Artemis, with a smile, 'I was young and selfish. Believe it or not, I do
harbour some doubts over that particular venture.'
'Not enough doubts to return the gold?'
'No,' admitted Artemis. 'Not quite.'
'How did you know I was here?'
Artemis steepled his fingers. 'There were several clues. One, Butler did not conduct his usual
bomb check under the car. Two, he returned without the items he went to fetch. Three, the door
was left open for several seconds, something no good security man would permit. And four, I
detected a slight haze as you entered the vehicle. Elementary really.'
Holly scowled. 'Observant little Mud Boy, aren't you?'
'I try. Now, Captain Short, if you would be so kind as to tell me why you are here.'
'As if you don't know.'
Artemis thought for a moment. 'Interesting. I would guess that something has happened.
Obviously something that I am being held responsible for.' He raised an eyebrow fractionally. An
intense expression of emotion for Artemis Fowl. 'There are humans trading with the People.'
'Very impressive,' said Holly. 'Or it would be if we didn't both know that you're behind it. And if
we can't get the truth out of you, I'm sure your computer files will prove most revealing.'
Artemis closed the laptop's lid. 'Captain. I realize there is no love lost between us, but I don't
have time for this now. It is imperative that you give me a few days to sort out my affairs.'
'No can do, Fowl. There are a few people below ground who would like a word.'
Artemis shrugged. 'I suppose after what I did, I can't really expect any consideration.'
'That's right. You can't.'
'Well then,' sighed Artemis. 'I don't suppose I have a choice.'
Holly smiled. 'That's right, Fowl, you don't.'
'Shall we go?' Artemis's tone was meek, but his brain was sparking off ideas. Maybe co-operating
with the fairies wasn't such a bad idea. They had certain abilities after all.
'Why not?' Holly turned to Butler. 'Drive south. Stay on the back roads.'
'Tara, I presume. I often wondered where exactly the entrance to El was.'
'Keep wondering, Mud Boy,' muttered Holly. 'Now, sleep. All this deduction is wearing me out.'
 
