POLICE PLAZA
ROOT pointed the finger of authority at Holly.
'Congratulations, Captain. You managed to lose some LEP technology.' Holly was ready for that
one. 'Not strictly my fault, sir. The human was mesmerized and you ordered me not to leave the
shuttle. I had no control over the situation.'
'Ten out of ten,' commented Foaly. 'Good answer. Anyway the Safetynet has a self-destruct, like
everything I send into the field.'
'Quiet, civilian,' snapped the commander. But there was no venom in the LEP officer's rebuke.
He was relieved; they all were. The human threat had been contained, and without the loss of a
single life. They were gathered in a conference room reserved for civilian committees. Generally
debriefings of this importance would be held in the Operations' Centre, but the LEP was not ready
to show Artemisss Fowl the nerve centre of its defences just yet.
Root jabbed an intercom button on the desk.
'Trouble, are you out there?'
'Yessir.'
'OK. Now listen, I want you to stand down the alert. Send the teams into the deep tunnels, see
if we can't root out a few goblin gangs. There are still plenty of loose ends: who's organizing the
B'wa Kell for one, and for what reason?'
Artemisss knew he shouldn't say anything. The sooner his side of the bargain was completed, the
sooner he could be in the Arctic. But the entire Paris scenario seemed suspicious.
'Does anyone else think this is too neat? It's just what you all wanted to happen. Not to mention
the fact that there could be more mesmerized humans up there.'
Root did not appreciate being lectured by a Mud Boy. Especially this particular Mud Boy.
'Look, Fowl, you've done what we asked. The Paris connection has been broken off. There won't
be any more illegal shipments coming down that chute, I assure you. In fact, we have doubled
security on all chutes, whether they're operational or not. The important thing is that whoever is
trading with the humans hasn't told them about the People. There will, of course, be a major
investigation, but that's an internal problem. So don't you worry your juvenile head about it.
Concentrate on growing some bristles.'
Foaly interrupted before Artemisss could respond. 'About Russia,' he said, hurriedly placing his
torso between Artemisss and the commander. 'I've got a lead.'
'You traced the e-mail?' said Artemisss, his attention switching immediately to the centaur.
'Exactly,' confirmed Foaly, launching into lecture mode.
'But it's been spiked. Untraceable.'
Foaly chuckled openly. 'Spiked? Don't make me laugh. You Mud Men and your communications
systems. You're still using wires, for heaven's sake. If it's been sent, I can trace it.'
'So, where did you trace it to?'
'Every computer has a signature, as individual as a fingerprint,' continued Foaly. 'Networks too.
They leave micro-traces, depending on the age of the wiring. Everything is molecular, and if you
pack gigabytes of data into a little cable, some of that cable is going to wear off.'
Butler was growing impatient. 'Listen, Foaly.Time is of the essence. Mister Fowl's life could
hang in the balance. So get to the point before I start breaking things.'
The centaur's first impulse was to laugh. Surely the human was joking? Then he remembered
what Butler had done to Trouble Kelp's Retrieval squad, and decided to proceed directly to the
point.
'Very well, Mud Man. Keep your hair on.'
Well, almost directly to the point.
'I put the MPEG through my filters. Uranium residue points to northern Russia.'
'Now there's a shock.'
'I'm not finished,' said Foaly. 'Watch and learn.'
The centaur brought up a satellite photo of the Arctic Circle on the wall-screen. With every
keystroke, the highlighted area shrank.
'Uranium means Severomorsk. Or somewhere within fifty miles. The copper wiring is from an
old network. Early twentieth century, patched up over the years. The only match is Murmansk. As
easy as joining the dots.' ,
Artemisss sat forward in his chair.
'There are two hundred and eighty-four thousand landlines on that network.' Foaly had to stop
for a laugh. 'Landlines. Barbarians.'
Butler cracked his knuckles loudly.
'Ah, so two hundred and eighty-four thousand landlines. I wrote a program to search for hits on
our MPEG. Two possible matches. One, the Hall of Justice.'
'Not likely. The other?'
'The other line is registered to a Mikhael Vassikin on Lenin Prospekt.'
Artemisss felt his stomach churn. 'And what do we know about Mikhael Vassikin?'
Foaly wiggled his fingers like a concert pianist. 'I ran a search on my own intelligence files
archives. I like to keep tabs on Mud People's so-called intelligence agencies. Quite a few mentions
of you by the way, Butler.'
The manservant tried to look innocent, but his facial muscles couldn't quite pull it off.
'Mikhael Vassikin is ex-KGB, now working for the Mafiya. The official term is khuligany. An
enforcer. Not high level, but not street trash either. Vassikin's boss is a Murmansker known as
Britva.The group's main source of income is the kidnapping of European businessmen. In the past
five years they have abducted six Germans and a Swede.'
'How many were recovered alive?' asked Artemisss, his voice a whisper.
Foaly consulted his statistics. 'None,' he said. 'And in two cases, the negotiators went missing.
Eight million dollars in lost ransom.'
Butler struggled from a tiny fairy chair. 'Right, enough talk. I think it's time Mister Vassikin was
introduced to my friend, Mister Fist.'
Melodramatic, thought Artemisss. But I couldn't have put it better myself.
'Yes, old friend. Soon enough. But I have no wish to add you to the list of lost negotiators.
These men are smart. So we must be smarter. We have advantages that none of our predecessors
had. We know who the kidnapper is, we know where he lives and, most importantly, we have fairy
magic.' Artemisss glanced at Commander Root. 'We do have fairy magic, don't we?'
'You have this fairy at any rate,' replied the commander. 'I won't force any of my people to go to
Russia. But I could use some back-up.' He glanced at Holly. 'What do you think?'
'Of course I'm coming,' said Holly. 'I'm the best shuttle pilot you have.'
KOBOI LABORATORIES
There was a firing range in the Koboi Labs' basement. Opal had it constructed to her exact
specifications. It incorporated her D projection system, was completely soundproof and was
mounted on gyroscopes. You could drop an elephant from twenty metres in there and no
seismograph under the world would detect so much as a shudder.
The purpose of the firing range was to give the B'wa Kell somewhere to practise with their
Softnose lasers before the operation began in earnest. But it was Briar Cudgeon who had logged
more hours on the simulators than anyone else. He seemed to spend every spare minute fighting
virtual battles with his nemesis, Commander Julius Root.
When Opal found him, he was pumping shells from his prized Softnose Redboy into a D
holoscreen running one of Root's old training films. It was pathetic really; a fact she didn't bother
mentioning.
Cudgeon twisted out his earplugs. 'So. Who died?'
Opal handed him a video pad. 'This just came in on the spy cameras. Carrere proved as inept as
usual. Everyone survived but, as you predicted, Root has called off the alert. And now the
commander has agreed to personally escort the humans to northern Russia, inside the Arctic Circle.'
'I know where northern Russia is,' Cudgeon snapped. He paused, stroking his bubbled forehead
thoughtfully for several moments. 'This could turn out to our advantage. Now we have the perfect
opportunity to eliminate the commander. With Julius out of the way, the LEP will be like a
headless stink worm. Especially with their surface communications down. Their communications
are down I take it?'
'Of course,' replied Opal. 'The jammer is linked into the chute sensors. All interference with
surface transmitters will be blamed on the magma flares.'
'Perfect,' said Cudgeon, his mouth twitching in what could almost be described as glee. 'I want
you to disable all LEP weaponry now. No need to give Julius any advantages.'
When Koboi Laboratories had upgraded LEP weapons and transport, a tiny dot of solder had
been included in each device. The solder was actually a mercury/glycerine solution that would
detonate when a signal of the appropriate frequency was broadcast from the Koboi communications
dish. LEP blasters would be useless, while the B'wa Kell would be armed to the teeth with
Softnose lasers.
'Consider it done,' said Opal. 'Are you certain Root won't be returning? He could upset our
entire plan.'
Cudgeon polished the Redboy on the leg of his uniform. 'Don't fret, my dear. Julius won't be
coming back. Now that I know where he's going, I'll arrange for a little welcome party. I'm certain
our scaly friends will be only too eager to oblige.'
The funny thing was that Briar Cudgeon didn't even like goblins. In fact, he detested them. They
made his skin crawl with their reptilian ways. Their gas-burner breath, their lidless eyes and their
constantly darting forked tongues.
But they did supply a certain something that Cudgeon needed: dumb muscle.
For centuries, the B'wa Kell triad had skulked around Haven's borders, vandalizing what they
couldn't steal and fleecing any tourists stupid enough to stray off the beaten path. But they were
never really any threat to society. Whenever they got too cheeky, Commander Root would send a
team into the tunnels to flush out the culprits.
One evening, a disguised Briar Cudgeon strolled into The Second Skin, a notorious B'wa Kell
hang-out, plonked an attache case of gold ingots on the bar and said, 'I want to talk to the triad.'
Cudgeon was searched and blindfolded by several of the club's bouncers. When the tape came off
his face, he was in a damp warehouse, walls lined with creeping moss. Three elderly goblins were
seated across the table from him. He recognized them from their mugshots. Scalene, Sputa and
Phlebum.The triad old guard.
The gift of gold, and the promise of more, were enough to pique their curiosity. His first
utterance was carefully planned.
'Ah, Generals, I am honoured you greet me in person.'
The goblins puffed out their wrinkled old chests proudly. Generals?
The rest of Cudgeon's patter was equally smooth. He could 'help' organize the B'wa Kell,
streamline it and, most importantly, arm it. Then, when the time was right, they would rise up and
overthrow the Council and their lackeys, the LEP. Cudgeon promised that his first act as Governor
General would be to free all the goblin prisoners in Howler's Peak. It didn't hurt that he subtly
laced his speech with hints of the hypnotic mesmer.
It was an offer the goblins could not refuse. Gold, weapons, freedom for their brothers and, of
course, a chance to crush the hated LEP. It never occurred to the B'wa Kell that Cudgeon could
betray them just as easily as he had the LEP. They were as dumb as stink worms and twice as
short-sighted.
Cudgeon met with General Scalene in a secret chamber beneath the Koboi Labs. He was in a foul
mood following Luc's failure to put a scratch on any of his enemies. But there was always Plan B . .
. The B'wa Kell was always eager to kill someone. It didn't really matter who.
The goblin was excited, thirsty for blood. He panted blue flames like a broken heater. 'When do
we go to war, Cudgeon? Tell us when?'
The elf kept his distance. He dreamed of the day when these stupid creatures would no longer be
necessary.
'Soon, General Scalene. Very soon. But first I need a favour. It concerns Commander Root.'
The goblin's yellow eyes narrowed. 'Root? The hated one. Can we kill him? Can we crack his
skull and fry his brains?'
Cudgeon smiled magnanimously. 'Certainly, General. All of these things. Once Root is dead, the
city will fall easily.'
The goblin was bobbing now, jiggling with excitement. 'Where is he? Where is Root?'
'I don't know,' Cudgeon admitted. 'But I know where he will be in six hours.'
'Where?Tell me, elf!'
Cudgeon heaved a large case on to the table. It contained four pairs of Koboi DoubleDex. 'Chute
. Take these, send your best hit squad. And tell them to wrap up warm.'
CHUTE E
Julius Root always travelled in style. In this instance, he had commandeered the Atlantean
ambassador's shuttle. All leather and gold. Seats softer than a gnome's behind, and drag buffers that
negated all but the most serious jolts. Needless to say, the Atlantean ambassador hadn't been all that
thrilled about handing over the starter chip. But it was difficult to refuse the commander when his
fingers were drumming a tattoo on the tri-barrelled blaster strapped to his hip. So now the humans
and their two elfin chaperones were climbing E in some considerable comfort.
Artemisss helped himself to a still water from the chiller cabinet. 'This tastes unusual,' he
commented. 'Not unpleasant, but different.'
'Clean is the word you're searching for,' said Holly. 'You wouldn't believe how many filters we
have to put it through to purge the Mud People from it.'
'No bickering, Captain Short,' warned Root. 'We're on the same side now. I want a smooth
mission. Now suit up, all of you. We won't last five minutes out there without protection.'
Holly cracked open an overhead locker. 'Fowl, front and centre.'
Artemisss complied, a bemused smile twitching at his lips.
Holly pulled several cubic packages from the locker. 'What are you, about a six?'
Artemisss shrugged. He wasn't familiar with the People's system of measurement.
'What? Artemisss Fowl doesn't know? I thought you were the world's expert on the People. It was
you who stole our Book last year, wasn't it?'
Artemisss unwrapped the package. It was a suit of some ultra-light rubber polymer.
'Anti-radiation,' explained Holly. 'Your cells will thank me in fifty years, if you're still around.'
Artemisss pulled the suit over his clothes. It shrank to fit like a second skin. 'Clever material.'
'Memory latex. Moulds itself to your shape, within reason. One use only unfortunately. Wear it
and recycle it.'
Butler clinked over. He was carrying so much fairy weaponry that Foaly had supplied him with a
Moonbelt. The belt reduced the effective weight of its attachments to one fifth of the Earth norm.
'What about me?' asked Butler, nodding at the rad suits.
Holly frowned. 'We don't have anything that big. Latex can only go so far.'
'Forget it. I've been in Russia before. It didn't kill me.'
'Not yet it hasn't. Give it time.'
Butler shrugged. 'What choice do I have?'
Holly smiled, and there was a nasty twist to it. 'Oh, I didn't say there wasn't a choice.'
She reached into the locker, pulling out a large pump 'n' spray can. And, for some reason, that
little can scared Butler more than a bunker full of missiles.
'Now, hold still,' she said, aiming a gramophone-type nozzle at the bodyguard. 'This may stink
worse than a hermit dwarf, but at least your skin won't glow in the dark.'
 
