OPERATIONS' BOOTH, POLICE PLAZA
FOALY was sitting in front of the LEP mainframe waiting for the results of his latest search.
Extensive laser brushing of the goblin shuttle had revealed one complete and one partial
thumbprint. The complete print was his own. Easily explicable as Foaly personally inspected all
retired shuttle parts. The partial print could well belong to their traitor. Not enough to identify the
fairy who'd been running LEP technology to the B'wa Kell, but certainly enough to eliminate the
innocent. Cross-reference the remaining names with everybody who had shuttle-part access, and the
list got considerably shorter. Foaly switched his tail contentedly. Genius. No point in being humble
about it.
At the moment, the computer was crunching through personnel files with the partial print. All
Foaly could do was twiddle his thumbs and wait for contact with the surface team. The magma
flares were still up. Very unusual. Unusual and coincidental.
Foaly's suspicious train of thought was interrupted by a familiar voice.
'Search complete,' said the computer, in Foaly's own tones. A little vanity. 'Three hundred and
forty-six eliminated. Forty possibles remaining.'
Forty. Not bad. They could easily be interviewed. An opportunity to use the Retimager once
again. But there was another way to narrow the field.
'Computer. Cross-reference possibles with Level Three clearance personnel.' Level Three
clearance would include everybody with access to the recycling smelters.
'Referencing.'
Of course, the computer would only accept commands from fairies whose voice patterns it was
programmed to recognize. And as a further security precaution, Foaly had coded his personal log
and other important files in a computer language he'd based on the ancient tongue of the centaurs:
Centaurian.
All centaurs were a touch paranoid, and with good reason, since there were less than a hundred
left. The humans had managed to kill off their cousins, the unicorns, altogether. There were
probably six centaurs under the Earth who could read the language, and only one who could
decipher the computer dialect.
Centaurian was possibly the oldest form of writing, dating back over ten millennia to when
humans first began hunting fairies. The opening paragraph of The Scrolls of Capalla, the only
surviving illuminated Centaurian manuscript, read:
Fairy creatures, heed this warning,
On Earth, the human era is dawning.
So hide, fairy, lest you be found,
And make a home beneath the ground.
Centaurs were known for their intellect, not their poetry. Still, Foaly felt the words were as
relevant today as they had been all those centuries ago.
Cudgeon knocked on the booth's security glass. Now, technically, Cudgeon shouldn't be allowed
in Ops, but Foaly buzzed him through. He could never resist having a crack at the ex-commander.
Cudgeon had been demoted to lieutenant following a disastrous attempt to replace Root as Recon
head honcho. If it hadn't been for his family's considerable political clout, he would have been
booted off the force altogether. All in all, he might have been better off in some other line of work.
At least he wouldn't have had to suffer Foaly's constant teasing.
'I have some e-forms for you to initial,' said the lieutenant, avoiding eye-contact.
'No problem, Commander,' chuckled the centaur. 'How's the plotting going? Any revolutions
planned for this afternoon?'
'Just sign the forms please,' said Cudgeon holding out a digi-pen. His hand was shaking.
Amazing, thought Foaly. This broken-down shell of an elf was once on the LEP fast track.
'No, but seriously, Cudgeon. You're doing a bang-up job on the form-signing thing.'
Cudgeon's eyes narrowed in suspicion. 'Thank you, sir.'
A grin tugged at the corner of Foaly's mouth. 'You're welcome. No need to get a swelled head.'
Cudgeon's hand flew to his misshapen forehead. Still a touch of the old vanity left.
'Oops. Sore subject. Sorry about that.'
There was a spark in the corner of Cudgeon's eye. A spark that should have warned Foaly. But he
was distracted by a beep from the computer.
'List complete.'
'Excuse me for a moment, Commander. Important business. Computer stuff, you wouldn't
understand it.'
Foaly turned to the plasma screen. The lieutenant would just have to wait for his signature. It
was probably just an order for shuttle parts anyway.
The penny dropped. A big penny with a clang louder than a dwarf's underpants hitting a wall.
Shuttle parts. An inside job. Someone with a grudge to settle. A line of sweat filled each groove on
Foaly's forehead. It was so obvious.
He looked at the plasma screen for confirmation of what he already knew. There were only two
names. The first, Bom Arbles, could be eliminated immediately. The Retrieval officer had been
killed in a core-diving accident. The second name pulsed gently. Lieutenant Briar Cudgeon.
Demoted to recycling crew around the time Holly retired that starboard booster. It all made sense.
Foaly knew that if he didn't acknowledge the message in ten seconds, the computer would read
the name aloud. He casually punched the delete button.
'You know, Briar,' he croaked. 'All those jibes about your head problem. It's all in fun. My way of
being sympathetic. Actually, I have some ointment . . .'
Something cold and metallic pressed against the back of the centaur's head. Foaly had seen too
many rock 'em sock 'em movies not to know what it was.
'Save your ointment, donkey boy,' said Cudgeon's voice in his ear. T have a feeling you'll be
developing some head problems of your own.'
THE MAYAK CHEMICAL TRAIN, NORTHERN RUSSIA
The first thing Artemis felt was a rhythmical knocking, jarring along the length of his spine. I'm at
the spa in Blackrock, he thought. Irina is massaging my back. Just what my system needs, especially
after all that horseplay on the train . . .The train!
Obviously they were still aboard the Mayak train. The jerking motion was actually the carriage
jolting over the track joins. Artemis forced his eyes open, expecting gargantuan doses of stiffness
and pain. But instead he realized he felt fine. More than fine. Great in fact. It must be magic. Holly
must have healed his various cuts and bruises while he was unconscious.
Nobody else was feeling quite so chipper. Especially Captain Short, who was still unconscious.
Root was draping a large coat over his fallen officer.
'Oh, you're awake, are you?' he said, without so much as a glance at Artemis. 'I don't know how
you can sleep at all after what you've just done.'
'Done? But I saved you . . . at least, I helped.'
'You helped all right, Fowl. You helped yourself to the last of Holly's magic while she was
unconscious.'
Artemis groaned. It must have happened when they fell. Somehow her magic had been diverted.
'I see what must have happened. It was an . . ."
Root raised a warning finger. 'Don't say it. The great Artemis Fowl doesn't do anything by
accident.'
Artemis fought against the train's motion, climbing to his knees. 'It can't be anything serious. Just
exhaustion, surely?'
And suddenly Root's face was a centimetre from his own, his complexion rosy enough to
generate heat. 'Nothing serious!' spluttered the commander, barely able to get the words out in his
rage. 'Nothing serious! She lost her trigger finger! The door cut it clean off. Her career is over. And
because of you, Holly barely had enough magic to stop the bleeding. She's drained of power now.
Empty.'
'She lost a finger?' echoed Artemis numbly.
'Not lost exactly,' said the commander, waving the severed digit. 'It poked me in the eye on the
way past.' His eye was already beginning to blacken.
'If we go back now, surely your surgeons can graft it on?'
Root shook his head. 'If we could go back now. I have a feeling that the situation below ground
is a lot different from when we left. If the goblins sent a hit team to get us, you can bet something
big is going on below ground.'
Artemis was shocked. Holly had saved all their lives, and this was how he had repaid her. While it
was true that he was not directly to blame for the injury, it had been inflicted while trying to save
his father. There was a debt to be paid here.
'How long?' he snapped.
'What?'
'How long ago did it happen?'
'I don't know. A minute.'
'Then there's still time.'
The commander sat up. 'Time for what?'
'We can still save the finger.'
Root rubbed a welt of fresh scar tissue on his shoulder, a reminder of his trip along the side of
the train. 'With what? I barely have enough power left for the mesmer.'
Artemis closed his eyes. Concentrating. 'What about the Ritual? There must be a way.'
All the People's magic came from the Earth. In order to top up their powers, they had to
periodically complete the Ritual.
'How can we complete the Ritual here?'
Artemis racked his brain. He had committed large sections of the Fairy Book to memory in
preparation for the previous year's kidnapping operation.
'From the earth thine power flows,
Given through courtesy, so thanks are owed.
Pluck thou the magick seed,
Where full moon, ancient oak and twisted water meet.
And bury it far from where it was found,
So return your gift into the ground.'
Artemis scrambled across the flooring and began patting down Holly's jumpsuit.
Root's heart nearly shut down then and there. 'In heaven's name, Mud Boy, what are you doing?'
Artemis didn't even look up. 'Last year, Holly escaped because she had an acorn.'
Through some miracle, the commander managed to restrain himself. 'Five seconds, Fowl. Talk
fast.'
'An officer like Holly wouldn't forget something like that. I'd be willing to bet . . ."
Root sighed. 'It's a good idea, Mud Boy. But the acorns have to be freshly picked. If it hadn't
been for the time-stop, that seed mightn't have worked. You've got a couple of days, tops. I know
Foaly and Holly put together some proposal for a sealed acorn unit, but the Council rejected it.
Heresy apparently.'
It was a long speech for the commander. He wasn't used to explaining himself. But a part of him
was hoping. Maybe, just maybe. Holly had never been averse to bending a few rules.
Artemis unzipped Captain Short's tunic. There were two tiny items on the gold chain around her
neck. Her copy of the Book, the fairy bible. Artemis knew that it would combust if he tried to
touch it without Holly's permission. But there was another item. A small plexiglass sphere filled
with earth.
'That's against regulations,' said Root, not sounding too upset.
Holly stirred, half-emerging from her stupor. 'Hey, Commander. What happened to your eye?'
Artemis ignored her, cracking the tiny sphere against the carriage floor. Earth and a small acorn
tumbled into his palm. 'Now all we need to do is bury it.'
The commander slung Holly over his shoulder. Artemis tried not to look at the space where her
index finger used to be.
'Then it's time to get off this train.'
Artemis glanced at the Arctic landscape whipping past outside the carriage. Getting off the train
wasn't as easy as the commander made it sound.
Butler dropped nimbly through the overhead hatch, where he'd been keeping an eye on the
goblin hit squad.
'Nice to see you're so limber,' commented Artemis drily.
The manservant smiled. 'Good to see you too, Artemis.'
'Well? What did you see up there?' said Root, interrupting the reunion.
Butler placed a hand on his young master's shoulders. They could talk later. 'The goblins are
gone. Funny thing. Two of them dropped low for reconnaissance, then the other one shot them in
the back.'
Root nodded. 'Power play. Goblins are their own worst enemies. But right now, we've got to get
off this train.'
'There's another bend coming up in about half a klick,' said Butler. 'That's our best chance.'
'So, how do we disembark?' asked Artemis.
Butler grinned. 'Disembark is a pretty gentle term for what I have in mind.'
Artemis groaned. More running and jumping.
OPERATIONS' BOOTH
Foaly's brain was bubbling like a sea slug in a deep-fat fryer. He still had options, providing
Cudgeon didn't actually shoot him. One shot and it was all over. Centaurs didn't have magic. Not a
drop. They got by on brains alone. That and their ability to trample their enemies underfoot. But
Foaly had a feeling that Briar wouldn't plug him just yet. Too busy gloating.
'Hey, Foaly,' said the lieutenant. 'Why don't you go for the intercom? See what happens.'
Foaly could guess what would happen. 'Don't worry, Briar. No sudden moves.'
Cudgeon laughed, and he sounded genuinely happy. 'Briar? First name terms now, is it?You must
realize how much trouble you're in.'
Foaly was starting to realize just that. Beyond the tinted glass, LEP techs were beavering away
trying to track down the mole, oblivious to the drama being played out not two metres away. He
could see and hear them, but it was one-way surveillance.
The centaur had only himself to blame. He had insisted that the Operations' booth be
constructed to his own paranoid standards. A titanium cube with blast-proof windows. The entire
room was wireless, not even a fibre-optic cable to connect Operations to the outside world.
Totally impregnable. Unless, of course, you opened the door to throw a few insults at an old
enemy. Foaly groaned. His mother had always said that his smart mouth would get him into trouble.
But all was not lost. He still had a few tricks up his sleeve. A plasma floor, for instance.
'So what's this all about, Cudgeon?' asked the centaur, raising his hooves just off the tiles. 'And
please don't say world domination.'
Cudgeon continued to smile. This was his/moment.
'Not immediately. The Lower Elements will suffice for now.'
'But why?'
Cudgeon's eyes were tinged with madness. 'Why?You have the gall to ask me why? I was the the
Council's golden boy! In fifty years I would have been chairman! And then along comes the Artemis
Fowl Affair. In one short day all my hopes are dashed. I end up deformed and demoted! And it was
all because of you, Foaly. You and Root! So the only way to get my life back on track is to discredit
both of you. You will be blamed for the goblin attacks, and Julius will be dead and dishonoured.
And as an added bonus, I even get Artemis Fowl. It's as close to perfect as I could have hoped.'
Foaly snorted. 'Do you really think you can defeat the LEP with a handful of Softnose weapons?'
'Defeat the LEP? Why would I want to do that? I am the hero of the LEP. Or rather I will be.
You will be the villain of this piece.'
'We'll see about that, baboon face,' said Foaly, activating a switch, sending an infra-red signal to a
receiver in the floor. In five-tenths of a second, a secret membrane of plasma would warm up. Half
a second later, a neutrino charge would spread across the plasma gel like wildfire, hopping anyone
connected to the floor off at least three walls. In theory.
Cudgeon giggled delightedly. 'Don't tell me. Your plasma tiles aren't working.'
Foaly was flummoxed. Momentarily. Then he lowered his hooves gingerly and pressed another
button. This one engaged a voice-activated laser. Basically, the next person to talk got plugged. The
centaur held his breath.
'No plasma tiles,' continued Cudgeon. 'And no voice-activated laser. You really are slipping,
Foaly. Not that I'm surprised. I always knew you'd be exposed for the donkey you are.'
The lieutenant settled into a swivel chair, propping his feet on the computer bank. 'So have you
figured it out yet?'
Foaly thought. Who could it be? Who could beat him at his own game? Not Cudgeon, that was
for sure. A techno fool if ever there was one. No, there was only one person with the ability to
crack the Centaurian code and deactivate the booth's safety measures.
'Opal Koboi,' he breathed.
Cudgeon patted Foaly's head. 'That's right. Opal planted a few spy cams during the upgrading
work. Once you were kind enough to translate a few documents for the camera, it was a simple
matter to crack your code and do a little reprogramming. And the funny thing is, the Council footed
the bill. She even charged for the spy cameras. Even now, the B'wa Kell is preparing to launch its
attack on the cjty: LEP weapons and communications are down, and the best thing is that you, my
horsy friend, will be held responsible. After all, you have locked yourself in the Operations' booth
in the middle of a crisis.'
'Nobody will believe it!' protested Foaly.
'Oh yes they will, especially when you disengage the LEP security, including the DNA cannons.'
'Which I won't be doing anytime soon.'
Cudgeon twirled a matt-black remote between his fingers. 'I'm afraid it's not up to you any more.
Opal took your little operation apart and wired the whole lot into this little beauty.'
Foaly swallowed. 'You mean . . .?'
'That's right,' said Cudgeon. 'Nothing works unless I press the button.'
He pressed the button. And even if Foaly had had the reactions of a sprite, he would never have
had time to draw up all his hooves before the plasma shock blasted him right out of his specially
modified swivel chair.
ARCTIC CIRCLE
Butler instructed everyone to attach themselves to the Moonbelt, one per link. Floating slightly
in the buffeting wind, the group manoeuvred itself to the carriage doorway like a drunken crab.
It's simple physics, Artemis told himself. Reduced gravity will prevent us being dashed against
the Arctic ice. In spite of all his logic, when Root launched the group into the night, Artemis
couldn't hold back a single gasp. Later, when he replayed the incident in his mind's eye, Artemis
would edit out the breath.
The slipstream spun them beyond the railway sleepers, into a drift. Butler turned off the
anti-gravity belt a second before impact, otherwise they could have bounced away, like men on the
moon.
Root was first to detach, scooping handfuls of snow from the surface until his fingers reached the
compacted ice below.
'It's no use,' he said. 'I can't break through the ice.'
He heard a click behind his shoulder.
'Stand back,' advised Butler, taking aim with his handgun.
Root obliged, shielding his eyes with a forearm. Ice slivers could blind you just as efficiently as
six-inch nails. Butler put a full clip into a narrow spread, blasting a shallow hollow in the frozen
surface. Instant sleet drenched the already sodden group.
Root was checking the results before the smoke cleared. He brought Butler up to speed – they
had seconds left before Holly's time ran out. They needed to complete the Ritual. After a certain
time it mightn't be wise to attempt a graft. Even if they could.
The commander jumped into the dip, sweeping aside layers of loose ice. There was a disk of
brown among the white.
'Yes!' he crowed. 'Earth!'
Butler lowered Holly's twitching form into the hole. She seemed like a doll in his powerful
hands. Tiny and limp. Root curled Holly's fingers around the illegal acorn, thrusting her left hand
deep into the shattered soil. He pulled a roll of tape from his belt, crudely securing the finger to
roughly its original position. The elf and two humans gathered around and waited.
'It mightn't take,' muttered Root nervously. 'This sealed acorn thing is new. Never been tested.
Foaly and his ideas. But they usually work. They usually do.'
Artemis laid a hand on his shoulder. It was all he could think to do. Giving comfort was not one
of his strong points.
Five seconds. Ten. Nothing.
Then . . .
'Look!' cried Artemis. 'A spark.'
A solitary blue spark travelled lazily along the length of Holly's arm, winding along the veins. It
crossed her chest, climbed her pointed chin and sank into the flesh right between the eyes.
'Stand-back,' advised Root. 'I saw a two-minute healing in Tulsa one night. Damn near destroyed
an entire shuttle port. I've never even heard of a four-minuter.'
They back-pedalled to the lip of the crater and not a moment too soon. More sparks erupted from
the Earth, targeting Holly's hand as the area most in need of assistance. They sank into her finger
joint like plasma torpedoes, melting the plastic tape.
Holly shot upright, arms swinging like a puppet. Her legs began to jerk, kicking invisible enemies.
Then the vocal cords, a high-pitched keening that cracked the thinner sheets of ice.
'Is this normal?' whispered Artemis, as though Holly could hear.
'I think so,' answered the commander. 'The brain is running a systems check. It's not like fixing
cuts and bruises, if you know what I mean.'
Every pore in Holly's body started to steam, venting trace radiation. She thrashed and kicked,
sinking back down into a pool of slush. Not a pretty sight. The water evaporated, shrouding the
LEP captain in mist. Only her left hand was visible, fingers a desperate blur.
Holly suddenly stopped moving. Her hand froze, then dropped through the mist. The Arctic
night rushed in to reclaim the silence.
They inched closer, leaning into the fog. Artemis wanted to see, but he was afraid to look.
Butler took a breath, batting aside sheets of mist. All was quiet below. Holly's frame lay still as
the grave.
Artemis peered at the shape in the hole. 'I think she's awake . . . '
He was cut short by Holly's sudden return to consciousness. She bolted upright, icicles coating
her eyelashes and auburn hair. Her chest ballooned as she swallowed huge gulps of air.
Artemis grabbed her shoulders, for once abandoning his shell of icy composure. 'Holly. Holly,
speak to me. Your finger. Is it OK?'
Holly wiggled her fingers, then curled them into a fist. 'I think so,' she said, and whacked
Artemis right between the eyes. The surprised boy landed in a snowdrift for the fourth time that
day.
Holly winked at an amazed Butler. 'Now, we're even,' she said.
Commander Root didn't have many treasured memories. But in future days, when things were at
their grimmest, he would conjure up this moment and have a quiet chuckle.
OPERATIONS' BOOTH
Foaly woke up sore, which was unusual for him. He couldn't even remember the last time he'd
experienced actual pain. His feelings had been hurt a few times by Julius's barbed comments, but
actual physical discomfort was not something he cared to endure when he could avoid it.
The centaur was lying on the Operations' Security-booth floor, tangled in the remains of his
office chair.
'Cudgeon,' he growled, and what followed was about two minutes' worth of unprintable
obscenity.
When he had finally vented his anger, the centaur's brain kicked in, and he hauled himself up
from the plasma tiles. His rump was singed. He was going to have a couple of bald spots on his hind
quarters. Very unattractive in a centaur. It was the first thing a prospective mate looked for in a
nightclub. Not that Foaly had ever been much of a dancer. Four left hooves.
The booth was sealed. Tighter than a gnome's wallet, as the saying went. Foaly typed in his exit
code. 'Foaly. Doors.'
The computer remained silent.
He tried verbal. 'Foaly. One two one override. Doors.'
Not a peep. He was trapped. A prisoner of his own security devices. Even the windows were set
to blackout, blocking his view of the Operations' room. Completely locked out, and locked in.
Nothing worked.
Well, that wasn't completely accurate. Everything worked, but his precious computers wouldn't
respond to his touch. And Foaly was only too well aware that there was no way out of the booth
without access to the mainframe.
Foaly plucked the tin foil hat from his head, crunching it into a ball.
'A lot of good you did me!' he said, tossing it into the waste recycler. The recycler would analyse
the chemical make-up of the item, then divert it to the appropriate tank.
A plasma monitor crackled into life on the wall. Opal Koboi's magnified face appeared, plastered
with the widest grin the centaur had ever seen.
'Hello, Foaly. Long time no see.'
Foaly returned the grin, but his wasn't quite as wide. 'Opal. How nice to see you. How are the
folks?' Everyone knew how Opal had bankrupted her father. It was a legend in the corporate world.
'Very well, thanks. Cumulus House is a lovely asylum.'
Foaly decided he would try sincerity. It was a tool he didn't use very often. But he would give it
a go.
'Opal. Think about what you're doing. Cudgeon is insane, for pity's sake. Once he has what he
wants, he will dispose of you in a heartbeat!'
The pixie shook a perfectly manicured finger. 'No, Foaly, you're wrong. Briar needs me. He really
does. He'd be nothing without me and my gold.'
The centaur looked deep into Opal's eyes. The pixie actually believed what she was saying. How
could someone so brilliant be so deluded?
'I know what this is all about, Opal.'
'Oh, you do?'
'Yes. You're still sore because I won the science medal back in university.'
For a second, Koboi's composure slipped, and her features didn't seem quite so perfect.
'That medal was mine, you stupid centaur. My wing design was far superior to your ridiculous
iris-cam. You won because you were a male. And that's the only reason.'
Foaly grinned, satisfied. Even with the odds so hugely against him, he hadn't lost the ability to be
the most annoying creature under the world when he wanted to be.
'So what do you want, Opal? Or did you just call to chat about our schooldays?'
Opal took a long drink from a crystal glass. 'I just called, Foaly, to let you know I'm watching, so
don't try anything. I also wanted to show you something from the security cameras downtown. This
is live footage by the way, and Briar is with the Council right now, blaming you for it. Happy
viewing.'
Opal's face disappeared to be replaced by a high-angle view of downtown Haven. A tourist
district, outside Spud's Spud Emporium. Generally, this area would be thronged with Atlantean
couples taking photos of each other in front of the fountain. But not today, because today the
square was a battleground. The B'wa Kell was waging open war with the LEP and, by the looks of
things, it was a one-sided battle. The goblins were firing their Softnose weapons, but the police
were not shooting back. They just huddled behind whatever shelter they could find. Completely
helpless.
Foaly's jaw dropped. This was disastrous. And he was being blamed for everything. Of course,
the thing about scapegoats was that they could not be left alive to protest their innocence. He had
to get a message to Holly, and fast, or they were all dead fairies.
 
